Add `dotnet install` capability to the SDK and as a Standalone Executable. Install CLI UX. (#335)
dotnet/designs: proposed/dotnet-bootstrapper-muxer-path.md

This bootstrapper would be acquired in the same fashion as `nvm`:
Via a website with a simple install script that downloads the executable.

The .NET SDK would also shell out to the bootstrapper executable for commands it does not know, aka `dotnet install`, `dotnet uninstall`, etc. This way the bootstrapper could automatically update itself, say for example when the `releases.json` url changed, this could be a breaking change requiring a self-update to function.

From a security context, it may be better to bundle this alongside the host in the same directory, for this would share the same security context.

In theory, this is 'doable' for .NET 10 in terms of changing the muxer to know about a specified bootstrapper location, which would enable these scenarios outside of just .NET 11.

### Create a C# Muxer

The muxer would become a bootstrapper and the muxer itself. It would cease to become C++ and become ported C# code that is run as native AOT code. This is high-risk and also likely still lower performance than a C++ application.

## PATH Issue

> Visual Studio and the MSI or 'global' .NET Installer set the System `PATH` on Windows and not the user level `PATH`. The system `PATH` always takes precedence over the user `PATH`. If `dnvm` sets the user path to enable a folder of local .NET SDKs to be discovered by the `dotnet.exe` application host at `DOTNET_ROOT`, via the `PATH`, those installs would become 'undetectable' to the runtime, debugger, etc when Visual Studio would update and modify the System `PATH`.

Reviewer: This is a very significant issue. Agreed.

This is also applicable to `source-built` SDKs and the `pkg` installer.

There have been several methods suggested to handle this. None of them are ideal.

### Fail on Windows if System PATH set, if `paths` in `global.json` is not set

In this approach, we prioritized defined and replicable behavior over the easier UX behavior. System administrator installs are created in predictable locations, especially those from Visual Studio and/or package manager feeds.

> What we could do is look for those feeds per install operation and decline to do anything when a user tries to run `dotnet install`. The error message would point the user towards leveraging the `sdk: paths []` option in their repository's `global.json` file, which would specify to the host or `dotnet.exe` where to look for the installs of the .NET SDK or .NET runtimes. The host is already aware of this as of .NET 10.

Reviewer 2: > where to look for the installs of the .NET SDK or .NET runtimes

The host only looks for SDKs in `sdks: paths []`, not runtimes.

Author: I did not know that. Thank you for clarifying!

> This is subject to backlash, especially as only 2 to 6% of users are on a `global.json` according to internal metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is subject to negative feedback, especially as only 2 to 6% of users are on a `global.json` according to internal metrics.
```

Author: I rewrote this to focus on the bad experience / work it creates for users, rather than the negative feedback. Thank you.

However, there is precedence in the sense that `nvm` is a Linux and macOS only tool, from an official standpoint. An alternative would be to make `dotnet install` only applicable to Linux and macOS. In this case, I would be more strongly opposed to using `dotnet` as the root command, and instead leaning towards making this an 'opinionated' installer that resolves the Linux and macOS scenario. This creates a split between OS support.

### Update the Installers / VS to Set the User PATH

> The Windows official guidance is to set the system level PATH, not to set the global `PATH`. However, there are some possible issues with setting the system `PATH`. For one, we believe that the Windows API for setting the user path does a `COM` broadcast to every single open window on the OS and waits for a response. `chrome.exe`, for example, hangs for 1 minute when receiving this broadcast, which means setting the API for setting the system PATH can take a minute, mostly dead waiting.

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused by the terminology here. I think of 'system' and 'global' as the same. Where we currently set 'system', but are considering setting 'user'.

Author: Great point, this wording is confusing. I rewrote this portion and some other parts. Some of this was incorrect.

> The Windows official guidance is to set the system level PATH, not to set the global `PATH`. However, there are some possible issues with setting the system `PATH`. For one, we believe that the Windows API for setting the user path does a `COM` broadcast to every single open window on the OS and waits for a response. `chrome.exe`, for example, hangs for 1 minute when receiving this broadcast, which means setting the API for setting the system PATH can take a minute, mostly dead waiting.

Reviewer 2: Do we know that the broadcast is only for the user environment? I'd guess it'd be something like a `WM_SETTINGCHANGE` message and it seems surprising that setting the user environment does a broad notification, but setting the (broader in scope) system environment does not.

Author: You're right, it appears to be any environment variable from the registry via `SetEnvironmentVariableFromRegistry`.
